+++
Categories = ["Jean's Journey"]
Tags = []
date = "2015-12-16T20:19:43-07:00"
title = "It's Okay to Cry: 15 Things I Learned My Senior Fall"
+++

1. It's okay to cry. It's okay to cry every Tuesday at noon for 20 minutes before big algs. It's not because of big algs, but it was just the only time I had all week. I mean I already knew this from many semesters ago, but I think I must have forgotten this from the last couple of semesters. School can be hard, when you're taking clinic, ai, PLs, and big algs. Plus a hum, plus grading and tutoring. And extracurriculars. 

2. Make sure you check in with a friend who knows what you are up to. Maybe tell your suite mate. Talk to the school psychologist. Make sure it's not too awful. 

3. But you can ignore certain advice. If someone is telling you to drop a certain class and its the only you love right now, it's okay to push back. 

4. But you should be choosy about what you want to do - you don't have to agree to do everything that comes your way. You shouldn't. Research, job interview offers, it's okay to be picky. Don't use the fear of missing out and try to do everything. It doesn't work that way. 

5. It's also okay to drop things. I started the semester with 3 jobs, a lot of extra extracurriculars and free time. I cut down to one primary extracurricular activity and just one tutoring/grading job. I felt bad I couldn't do everything, but I was just too busy. 

6. It's okay to be bitter. There's not too much to say about this. Very bitter. 

7. But remember why you chose the school in the first place. It is still worth it even if you can't remember that in the present. It is. At least for me. Big algs is your favorite, even if your favorite is problematic. 

8. It's okay to get used a new normal. Rounded corners on your proofs, and working on homework the same day it's due. Not getting enough sleep going into Monday. Working on PLs 6 hours before it's due. You didn't used to do this. You used to be so on top of things. It's okay. Do what you need to do to survive. 

9. Know what is more productive. Don't spend half an hour on the homework when you could better to use the time to do something else. Like taking a shower, or eating breakfast. That makes a difference. It really does. Try it. It's okay to take time to take care of yourself. You can do well on your homework still. 

10. Take breaks. Real breaks where you go rock climbing and leave campus. Or leave the city and go into the fair. You can afford it, time wise. Well, you can't, but you should go anyways and suffer later with homework. If you don't, you'll shrivel up. 

11. Pick a new light at the end of the tunnel. Maybe you have committed to getting a job at the end of the semester and then you can use that to help you get through. Maybe it's an iphone wallpaper that says "when life gets tough, get tougher." Even if it's a lie, use it. Believe in the lie to make it to the end. Know that it is is temporary. 

12. Take your high school accomplishments off your resume. Seriously, it's just unprofessional and desperate. Nobody is impressed. Seriously. 

13. Yes, you were valedictorian. But so was half your graduating class. 

14. There is no shame is wearing your hair in the messiest of buns and having sweatpants on.

15. Be nice to other people after you're done with something. Have empathy once you've picked a job, and once you've finished finals. This semester doesn't just suck for you.
